1. The information contained in this Request for Proposal ("RFP")
document provided to the Applicants(s), by or on behalf of
Chhattisgarh Housing Board (THE CGHB) or any of its employees
or advisors, is provided to the Applicants (s) on the terms and
conditions set out in this RFP document and all other terms and
conditions subject to which such information is provided.
2. The purpose of this RFP document is to provide the Applicants (s)
with information to assist the formulation of their Proposals. This
RFP document does not purport to contain all the information each
Applicants may require. This RFP document may not be appropriate
for all persons, and it is not possible for THE CGHB, its employees
or advisors to consider the business/investment objectives, financial
situation and particular needs of each Applicant who reads or uses
this RFP document. Each Applicant should conduct its own
investigations and analysis and should check the accuracy, reliability
and completeness of the information in this RFP document and
where necessary obtain independent advice from appropriate
sources. THE CGHB, its employees and advisors make no
representation or warranty and shall incur no liability under any law,
statute, rules or regulations as to the accuracy, reliability or
completeness of the RFP document.
3. THE CGHB may, in its absolute discretion, but without being under
any obligation to do so, modify the RFP update, amend or
supplement the information in this RFP document.
- 2 -
CHHATTISGARH HOUSING BOARD (CGHB)
RFP Notification Advertisement
www.cghb.gov.in
OUTSOURCING OF ESTATE MANAGEMENT
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST INVITED FROM FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
CGHB intends to outsource its Estate Management function, this includes Sale proceeds,
customer care & Marketing in-house. The basic object is to provide better services by online
solution.
The eligibility criteria, scope of work & bid documents can be obtained from the office of
undersigned during working hour's or can be downloaded from www.cghb.gov.in
Contact person- Shri C.S. Bajwa, CEO, Mo. No.- 9424209005
1. Last date of obtaining Bid documents & information - 07/11/2014
2. Pre Bid Meeting - 10/11/2014 (At 11:30 AM)
3. Last date for submission of proposal - 25/11/2014 Up to 5.00 PM
4. Meeting & presentation of Bidders - 04/12/2014
COMMISSIONER
- 3 -
CHHATTISGARH HOUSING BOARD (CGHB)
SCHEDULE OF BIDDING PROCESS
The schedule of events during the Bidding Process shall be as follows - Sr. No Event Description
1 Issue of RFP document Notification
2 Last date of Obtaining RFP &
Information
3 Pre Bid Meeting
Last Date of submission of Proposal 4
(Proposal due date)
5 Opening of proposal
6 Short listing of Agency for
Presentation
7 Meeting & Presentation of Bidder
Acceptance of Proposal